miyamoto musashi is one of the most
legendary samurai
and famed as japan's greatest swordsman
undefeated in more than 60
jewels after he escaped death during the
battle of seiki gahara
musashi became a ronin aside from being
a swordsman he was also a philosopher
artist and well-learned buddhist before
he died
musashi left us with 21 principles
named dokodo these are timeless rules
that can inspire us today
to live well the majority if not
all of these rules help us to establish
one thing
focus focus is the quality of having a
concentrated interest or activity on
something
needless to say focus was a crucial
component
in musashi's life or what he called the
way
which is a life of ongoing practice his
writings reveal
that his lifestyle revolved around
restraint sacrifice
discipline and not being swayed by
pleasure
these virtues were all established by or
in support of
being able to focus especially when he
spent time apart from society
musashi was only concerned with
perfecting his skill
while aiming for enlightenment by the
way of the sword
this three-part series elaborates on the
21 principles from musashi's
dokodo the first part explored the first
seven principles this second part will
explore how to live a life
of ultimate focus based on the next
seven principles
please note the elaborations in this
video are based on existing philosophies
the author's interpretations and
reasoning and are intended to be an
inspiration for
present day life
eight never let yourself be saddened by
a separation
separation can take place in several
ways
we can be separated from someone
temporarily because of traveling
relocation or permanently because of
death
we can also become separated from
certain objects
like personal items or money for most of
us
the separation from what we love leads
to suffering
as we're attached to the object or
person we're separated from we
experience
an intense feeling of lack as we believe
that what's taken away from us
belongs to us and is part of us in
buddhism
this idea of possession is delusional
many buddhists would agree
that we don't truly own anything outside
of our mental faculties
even our bodies aren't our own as we
don't fully control them
musashi being a ronan and a buddhist was
probably aware
of this delusion of possession as well
as the burden of attachment
to objects and people his way was one of
solitude and practice
and therefore he couldn't afford to be
saddened by separations because
life is full of separations all things
come and go
whether it's people stuff or wealth
especially for a ronin who is traveling
from place to place
attachment to the people he met and the
places he visited
would have led to continuous grief
instead
as a ronin he had to embrace the
temporary nature
of things including the inevitable
conclusion of life
which is death in his book of five rings
musashi wrote that the way of the
warrior is the resolute acceptance of
death
for a warrior life is surrounded by
the death of the people he slays of the
people that fight by his side
of the people he failed to protect and
of course the risk of being killed
himself like no other musashi must have
realized
that death awaits us all by being aware
of this
and accepting the impermanence of life
we'll have an easier time
when we encounter it
9. resentment and complaint are
appropriate
neither for oneself or others
it's very common for people to spend
insane amounts of time
resenting and complaining about the
world the traps of resentment and
complaint
are very easy to fall into for one with
a critical eye
and strong opinions on how life should
be there's always something to complain
about
but when we find ourselves in a
continuous state of resentment
about the world it means that we're
focused on others and
not on ourselves for someone who is
dedicated to a life of ongoing practice
spending time resenting and complaining
about the world
or one's own life is detrimental the
world is beyond our control
people will act in ways that don't
comply with our ethics and
values all the time people will behave
foolishly
rudely ungratefully people will dislike
us
try to interfere with our lives treat us
unjustly
try to take advantage of us furthermore
life isn't fair we don't get equal
shares of the pie
we aren't equally gifted equally
handsome equally healthy
trying to change this is a sincere ideal
created by the human mind
but it's almost impossible to achieve as
we'll find nature
working against us all the time from a
buddhist point of view we shouldn't
spend too much time
trying to change the world and we should
especially refrain
from resenting what is instead it's much
wiser
to focus on ourselves live the best life
we can while being accepting of those
who don't
or a stoic philosopher marcus aurelius
put it be tolerant with others
and strict with yourself
10. don't let yourself be guided
by the feeling of lust or love in a
previous video
i've explored the different types of
love with selfless love called agape by
the ancient greeks
on one end and selfish love called eros
on the other end
musashi seems to point to eros in this
case which is a form of love
motivated by lustful desire also known
among buddhists as
romantic love in many of today's
cultures
we see that romantic love is elevated to
the status of
ultimate concern this human experience
is almost
seen as divine and thus worthy of our
pursuit
and sacrifice musashi clearly wouldn't
have endorsed the way we treat romantic
love today
this probably wasn't just because lust
and love
are so distracting and would have been
harmful to his progress
as a swordsman but also because he was a
buddhist and buddhists
don't buy this sacralization of romantic
love
in fact they are aware of the dangers of
being guided by it
like any other feeling love and lust can
overcome us
but we have the choice whether or not we
engage with
these feelings instead of letting
ourselves be blindly guided by romance
it would be wiser not to forsake our
ability to think
rationally so we stay grounded and
focused on our path
people tend to make very unwise
decisions while enchanted by lust and
love
from choices that affect their work or
violate personal boundaries
to violence and even murder
11. in all things have no preferences
the problem with preferences is that we
create a dependency when it comes to the
state of the outside world
when we come across something that we
prefer we're happy
but when we incur something that we
don't prefer or even dislike
we're disappointed as we don't have
anything to say
about what the environment presents to
us by having preferences
we'll give outside circumstances the
power over our mood
our equanimity will depend on whether or
not the circumstances
are preferable this is kind of an
inferior way to go about life
musashi encountered many different
people objects
and situations but had to keep a
tranquil mind so he wouldn't stray
from his path strong preferences would
have been harmful to his practice
so it's wise to keep our preferences in
check
and instead embrace whatever fate
overcomes us
and make the best out of it this way we
can never go wrong
and thus the quality of our focus
remains independent
of the result
12. be indifferent to where you live
as a ronin musashi wandered over japan
staying in many different places
from castles to caves but regardless of
where he lived his way remained the
center of his life
people nowadays put great emphasis on
their living environment
they care a lot about their homes their
neighborhood they live in the kind of
furniture
they possess but when we're too attached
to having certain living conditions
we'll get anxious when these conditions
are threatened
when our living situation is truly
unsafe it's of course
no luxury to abandon that place but
oftentimes
it's simple dissatisfaction with current
circumstances that makes people look for
another
home some people are quickly bored and
unhappy with their current home
and believe that moving will take away
this dissatisfaction
unfortunately the sense of fulfillment
that follows after moving into a new
place is only temporary
because wherever we go we always take
ourselves with us
satisfaction and dissatisfaction happen
within
not outside at the end of the day it
doesn't matter where we live
if we're content with ourselves by being
content with our homes
no matter how simple and small we'll
have one less thing to worry about
and are more likely to stay focused on
our purpose
13. do not pursue the taste of good food
many if not most people indulge in the
pleasure of the tongue
by enjoying a good meal some spend long
evenings
whining and dining consuming drink after
drink and
course after course but foodies beware
this behavior has its downside miyamoto
musashi discourages
the pursuit of good food his exact
reasons for this
aren't known but when we look at what
other philosophers had to say about this
we might get an idea the ancient stoics
for example were also concerned about
food
they encouraged people to eat simply
founder of stoicism
xeno obsidium observed that when people
get used to eating fancy
expensive meals they stop appreciating
the simple food
when our appetites become oversaturated
we'll only crave more
extravagant and stimulating ways to
satisfy the
pleasure of eating immoderate eating
habits could very well turn into
gluttony which leads to health problems
we would say that the gluten enjoys and
appreciates food while the opposite
might be the case voracious eaters and
drinkers
usually don't take time to eat mindfully
and with an appreciation
for the dish in front of them instead
they compulsively consume
as much as possible to be temporarily
relieved
from the pain of food cravings what we
could do instead
is eat mindfully and unlimited amounts
and train ourselves
to not give in to cravings by doing so
we'll be less attached
to taste and our cravings for food will
weaken
so we're less likely to overeat at the
end of the day
the purpose of eating is nutrition as we
need fuel
to live and thrive
14. do not hold on to possessions
you no longer need it seems like musashi
already knew the benefits of a
minimalist lifestyle
his life as a ronin didn't lend itself
to having possessions
traveling japan staying in different
places fighting jewels
perfecting his skill possessions would
only have been a burden
besides his two swords he only needed
the basics
to survive and practice some people tend
to collect possessions as if the
accumulation of material goods
increases their happiness this could be
the case for a while
but mostly it only creates a hunger for
more
eventually the more we own the more
weight we carry on our shoulders until
we become servants of
our possessions instead of the other way
around
clinging to our belongings as well as
the pursuit for more
creates anxiety the fear of losing what
we have
and the fear of not getting what we want
but when we have a higher purpose
and are able to achieve higher levels of
happiness there is no point in chasing
all these material possessions
anymore in buddhism when one finds
contentment in stillness
without needing entertainment like
television or music chasing possessions
doesn't make much sense what it all
comes down to
is the ability to travel light like a
ronin
so we can focus on what matters
thank you for watching
[Music]
[Applause]
you